+++
title = 'In the AI World, Learning is Still Worth It'
date = 2025-12-16T12:53:13-06:00
draft = true
+++

My resume says that I am a software engineer.  In practice, the many hats I've worn feel like an amalgomation of everything but.  I have two bachelor's degrees (dont ask), but long past were the days where I really felt like I excelled at my craft.  Always too much of a systems engineer or a cloud engineer to not glue together systems with some overly practical, never exceptional Python or trying to clean up some dreadfully cobbled together Node application thats only ever just good enough.  Now, I don't think this is from a lack of ability or education.  While no one would ever accuse me a star student, I did very much accel at data structures and alike.  But somewhere along the way I lost my ability to not be daunted by an empty file.  A paralysis of only wanting to ever write perfect code, but not knowing how to do it.  

In December of 2023 I departed Canonical after three years.  Recently engaged, planning a move, but not having many options.  I found myself several months later sitting in a camper in the outskirts of Memphis, Tennessee contemplating a career pivot to provide for my wife while tirelessly applying for jobs and pushing hard into contributing to open source projects. After months of searching, it became clear to me that I needed to upskill.  Creating a new project from scratch sounded like a prime way to train my skills and learn something that could deliver me from circumstance.  But with AI being championed across the domain of software engineering, is learning still valuable?  Does the only skill that exist in this new world just "prompting?"  Is knowledge reduced to reguritating a summary of what I don't understand?

This is where Bazaar was born.  No not *that* Bazaar, but I'll get to that in a minute.  Canonical had recently released their flutter-based [App Center](https://github.com/ubuntu/app-center) which I thought was safe and uninspired.  The too familiar coat of paint that is symbolic of Ubuntu as of late, just maintaining and never innovating.  Bazaar was new GUI client for browsing and managing flatpak applications that was built on flutter.  And for the next two months, I pushed forward in an attempt to stay relevant in what felt like an ever growing gap between where I was and where I wanted to be.  But even if I did complete it, would anyone care?  Would it meet any of my family's needs or would it be an investment in irrelevance?  Between not knowing if this was ever going to pay off and a tremendous amount of self-doubt, my little pet project fizzled and died.  In spite of that, I was blessed with employment and was well on my way to turning things around, and from that perspective, ya, Bazaar no longer mattered.

Fast-forward to early June 2025 and I see chatter about Bazaar through Universal Blue.  What was this? *My* flatpak application?  No, this is my idea but slightly different, [flatpak GUI client written in C](https://github.com/kolunmi/bazaar).  People seem to be praising it.  It's evolving and getting support from a popular linux ~distribution~ image.  But how?  No one would have cared about my version, right?  I sat there deflated, defeated.  Could that have been me?

Maybe.

I think even that question has already missed the point.  Why did I start Bazaar?  Was it for recognition and praise or was it for becoming better?  I spent the next few months mulling over those questions in my head while working on [Mosaic](https://github.com/jardon/gnome-mosaic) in my spare time.  The truth is that I've lost my way.  Gone are the days that I geeked out over writing exceptional code and caring about doing great work if not only for the fact that my name is on it somewhere.

But I don't have to stay here.  I can still learn.  I can still grow.  I can still *care*.  So I decided to finish Bazaar although I would argue that there is no true finish line.  I wanted to complete the project not to try to somehow capture an audience that was taken from me by my own insecurities, but I wanted to complete it for the sake of completing my original goal, to learn.  Nowadays its called [Outlet](https://github.com/jardon/outlet) and its far more feature complete than what Bazaar was when I took my first stab at it.  But to get to where it is today, I had to get to where I was many times over.  Sure, Outlet at times resembles the finest, most authentic italian cuisine, but I had to set and accomplish many goals along the way.

To name a few:
- Generating and distributing FFI bindings for C library interop
- State management in Flutter
- Dart isolates for multithreading and asynhronous tasks

Maybe one day, learning won't be necessary, and we'll all be grateful we're not all extinct.  But even if my skills no longer mattered, would I regret the time spent collecting them?  So far, there's very little if anything that I regret knowing.  My life is rarely better from being more ignorant and less competent. 